The President:
This week, Americans across the country cast their votes and
made their voices heard.
And your message was clear.
You're rightly frustrated with
the pace of our economic recovery.
So am I.
You're fed up with partisan
politics and want results.
I do too.
So I congratulate all this week's winners --
Republicans, Democrats, and
Independents.
But now, the campaign season is
over.
And it's time to focus on our
shared responsibilities to work
together and deliver those
results: speeding up our
economic recovery, creating
jobs,
and strengthening the middle
class so that the American Dream
feels like it's back within
reach.
That's why I've asked to sit
down soon with leaders of both
parties so that we can have an
extended discussion about what
we can do together to move this
country forward.
And over the next few weeks,
we're going to have a chance to
work together in the brief
upcoming session of Congress.
Here's why this lame-duck session is so important.
Early in the last decade,
President Bush and Congress
enacted a series of tax cuts
that were designed to expire at
the end of this year.
What that means is, if Congress
doesn't act by New Year's Eve,
middle-class families will see
their taxes go up starting on
New Year's Day.
But the last thing we should do
is raise taxes on middle-class families.
For the past decade, they saw
their costs rise,
their incomes fall, and too many
jobs go overseas.
They're the ones bearing the
brunt of the recession.
They're the ones having trouble
making ends meet.
They're the ones who need
relief right now.
So something's got to be done.
And I believe there's room for
us to compromise and get it done together.
Let's start where we agree.
All of us want certainty for
middle-class Americans.
None of us want them to wake up
on January 1st with a higher tax bill.
And that's why I believe we should permanently extend the
Bush tax cuts for all families making less than $250,000 a year.
That's 98% of the American
people.
We also agree on the need to
start cutting spending and
bringing down our deficit.
That's going to require everyone
to make some tough choices.
In fact, if Congress were to
implement my proposal to freeze
non-security discretionary
spending for three years,
it would bring this spending
down to its lowest level as a
share of the economy in 50
years.
But at a time when we're going
to ask folks across the board to
make such difficult sacrifices,
I don't see how we can afford to
borrow an additional $700
billion from other countries to
make all the Bush tax cuts
permanent,
even for the wealthiest 2% of
Americans.
We'd be digging ourselves into
an even deeper fiscal hole and
passing the burden on to our
children.
I recognize that both parties
are going to have to work
together and compromise to get
something done here.
But I want to make my priorities
clear from the start.
One: middle class families need
permanent tax relief.
And two: I believe we can't
afford to borrow and spend
another $700 billion on
permanent tax cuts for
millionaires and billionaires.
There are new public servants in
Washington,
but we still face the same
challenges.
And you made it clear that it's
time for results.
This a great opportunity to show
everyone that we got the message
and that we're willing, in this
post-election season,
to come together and do what's
best for the country we all love.
Thanks.